# EP Booster Info

This is something I've found online, and I'd like to keep everything in one place so if anyone is interested in the
vintage mode, below you can find more about it.

---


https://forum.fractalaudio.com/threads/ep-booster-effect.123258/post-1466546

2007
"There was a recent post about how an EP-3 preamp sounds good. I had a look at the schematic and couldn't see how such a
simple circuit could make any difference, so I built myself a copy of the preamp to try.

Sure enough, the preamp added a bit of "body" or "roundness" to the guitar tone, but I still couldn't see why. I checked
with an oscilloscope and couldn't see any EQ effect or any amplitude distortion. Finally, it occurred to me to check
phase difference between input and output by triggering the scope from the input only.

Again, sure enough, there was some phase distortion. At some frequencies, the output phase was leading the input phase,
and at other frequencies, the opposite occurred.

It's been established for a long time that the human ear uses phase relationship between sounds to determine direction
of sounds. I suspect that varying phase between frequencies in the same sound may cause the brain to perceive an effect
that is similar to EQ."

2010
"Boost is in the 4KHz to 6KHz region in the EP-PRE. The fact that harmonics at 6KHz lag 1KHz signal components by about
30 degrees does appear to have a significant effect on perceived
levels." [note: this last statement refers to phase response]

2012
"...the frequency response curve is surprisingly flat, with only a gentle roll-off of high frequencies (less than 3db at
6KHz) and an even gentler roll-off of low frequencies.
The key to the EP-3 and EP-PRE sound is phase response. The phase of low frequencies is advanced and the phase of higher
frequencies is delayed. Real world sounds such as guitar sound contain a fundamental frequency and a number of
harmonics, multiples of the fundamental. The fundamental of an open high E string is 330Hz, but when you pick the
string, the resulting sound will contain varying amounts of 660Hz, 990Hz, 1320Hz etc. The higher frequency harmonics
will be phase delayed. The phase relationship between the fundamental and harmonics can carry spatial information. This
phenomenon has been used for many years to create convincing "surround sound" in little boom boxes that have only two
speakers."

2013
"The EP-3 preamp has very little effect on frequency response, maybe a little extreme bottom end roll-off and, at the
other end, a mild top roll-off.

Phase response is another story, and it is phase response that creates the almost undefinable magic tone of the preamp.
The special phase response of the circuit can add top end sparkle, in spite of the top roll-off. The effect can vary
when used in conjunction with other gear that adds its own non-linearity to signal phase."